# P-- Lexical Analyzer

This program implements a lexical analyzer for the P-- language, based on the grammar available at [link to grammar]. The analyzer is able to recognize tokens in a given input file and output them to another file along with their respective classes.

## Usage

To use the lexical analyzer, simply run the following command in the terminal:

```
make run IN=input_file OUT=output_file
```

Where `input_file` is the name of the file containing the P-- code to be analyzed and `output_file` is the name of the file where the analysis results will be saved. If `output_file` already exists, its contents will be overwritten.

Alternatively, you can also use the following commands:

- `make`: compiles the source code and generates the executable file
- `make clean`: removes the object files and executable file
- `make test`: runs a test suite to ensure the correctness of the program

## Output Format

The output file generated by the analyzer consists of one token-class pair per line. Each pair is separated by a space, and the pairs are sorted in the order in which the tokens appear in the input file. If any lexical errors are encountered during the analysis, they will also be included in the output file.

## Implementation Details

The lexical analyzer was implemented using a series of finite automata, which were designed based on the grammar of the P-- language. The implementation includes error handling for invalid tokens and a mechanism for tracking the position of the current token in the input file.

## Authors

- [Hype here](link to Author 1 Github profile)
- [Maxsuel F. de Almeida - 11801028](https://github.com/maxsuel-fa)
- [Cubi here](link to Author 3 Github profile)
- [Lucas Carvalho Freiberger Stapf - 11800559](https://github.com/LucasStapf)
